shyster
================

<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

The problem this package is trying to solve is that while I can set
`hyphens: auto;` in CSS, many browsers do a poor job of hyphenating
Finnish. Even if they have Finnish hyphenation patterns, they often fail
to recognise compound words, which should be hyphenated at compound
boundaries (saippua-kauppias, not saip-pua-kaup-pias). One solution is
to set `hyphens: manual;` and add soft hyphens at acceptable hyphenation
spots.

## Install

``` sh
pip install https://github.com/jkseppan/shyster/
```

## How to use

``` python
pat, ex = read_patterns(open('patterns/hyph-fi.tex').readlines())
pat_re, pat_map = convert_patterns(pat)
ex = convert_exceptions(ex)
hyph = hyphenator(pat_re, pat_map, ex, righthyphenmin=2)

[hyph(word) for word in 'Olipa kerran pieni paha noita Känkkäränkkä nimeltään'.split()]
```

    ['Oli-pa',
     'ker-ran',
     'pie-ni',
     'pa-ha',
     'noi-ta',
     'Känk-kä-ränk-kä',
     'ni-mel-tään']

``` python
pat, ex = read_patterns(open('patterns/hyphen.tex').readlines())
pat_re, pat_map = convert_patterns(pat)
ex = convert_exceptions(ex)
hyph = hyphenator(pat_re, pat_map, ex)

import textwrap
textwrap.wrap(' '.join(hyph(word) for word in '''
It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune,
must be in want of a wife.
'''.replace(',','').replace('.','').split()))
```

    ['It is a truth univer-sally ac-knowl-edged that a single man in posses-',
     'sion of a good for-tune must be in want of a wife']

## Copying

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

The files in `patterns/` are distributed with this program as example
input files. The Finnish patterns are covered by the terms “Patterns may
be freely distributed” and the English ones by “Unlimited copying and
redistribution of this file are permitted as long as this file is not
modified.”
